Literature review
Vision-2020 is a global initiative that advocates for 'the Right to Sight' and established a partnership between the World Health Organization (WHO) and the International Agency for the Prevention of Blindness (IAPB), which launched in 1999. The two aims of eliminating avoidable blindness and decrease visual impairment are a global public health problem. However, automatic predicting approaches are expected to be developed to improve the efficiency and reliability of the results of pathological examination. Previously, numerous models were applied to obtain the best classification with segmentation, even with localized techniques such as the DWCE algorithm. It proposed for segmentation of digitized mammograms and implementation along with edge detection and morphological feature classification6; nevertheless, it is still a complicated issue and a tedious task to examine, size of lesions, and the similarity between pixels that appear in hard exudates (HE) and the optic disk (OD).

In essence, the convolutional neural network is an efficient branch of the neural network representing the core of deep learning. The utility of CNN has been expanded from detection to localization and segmentation7. Moreover, it makes significant breakthroughs in computer vision. Improving representation ability is a crucial problem in designing the model structure for handling complex tasks such as attribute analysis. Typical image processing methods such as contrast enhancement8, histogram analysis9, edge detection10, and matched filtering11 have been applied to identify different types of DR lesions.

Gondal et al.28 proposed CNN network for DR classification problem. The second part of model has been modified to apply weakly supervised object localization (WSL). Heatmaps generated for localization with Class Activation Maps. However, the model solves the localization problem but still needs development to eliminates error prediction. We enable an optic disc removal algorithm that has an impact feedback to enhance the detection.

CNN classification
Several algorithms were proposed to solve the classification problem, such as Decision Tree, Support Vector Machine, and Random Forest to detect bright and dark DR lesions. The region-level classification was the best technique compared with pixel-level, considering the shape and size of the lesion. Pires et al.12 investigated a data-driven method to extract powerful abstract representations and applied it to investigate the ability of transfer learning (TL) in the context of DR screening at a particular area on the image. The presented technique denotes the patient immediately from the retinal examination pixels, without preliminary feature extraction for the image or lesion edges detection from an initial basic configuration.

A deep learning-based solution was created to highlight various methods and develop a robust framework. Lama et al.13 pioneered a novel red lesion detection method based on a new set of shape features named Dynamic Shape Features. Although it is an automatic telemedicine scheme, it decreased the AUC to 0.899 on Messidor and used a Random Forest (RF) classifier to discriminate between lesions and non-lesions spots. Shanthi et al.14 modified the Alexnet architecture for classification problems on the Messidor dataset after preprocessing phase, including the green channel to provide enhanced optic nerves and other vital features of the image by initialing into RGB channels. The goal of Alexnet is to compute a better computational aptitude to tackle the difficulties more effectively than other networks, such as Le-Net, Conv-Net. The presented technique utilizes principal component analysis (PCA) to separate the optic disc from the fundus dataset.

Automatic detection of DR
The main advantage of automatic detection is assisting ophthalmologists to detect, classify, localize, or segment the damage that DR causes and ensure diagnosis at any phase of progression. Thus, it is considered more efficient at detection. Many studies have been proposed for DR detecting. These studies' methods can be generally categorized as follows : Unsupervised Methods, Supervised Methods, and weakly supervised learning.

Many DR detection approaches for retinal images have been introduced in recent years. The most efficient models are related to deep learning techniques especially, the supervised method15. Supervised approaches make use of the training phase that is manually managed and segmented by ophthalmologists. Various supervised classifiers have been used for this purpose such as Artificial Neural Networks (ANN), and K-Nearest Neighbor (K-NN) classifier. The inclusion of contextual semantic environments enhanced the performance of the classifier. The Gaussian mixture model16 produces segmentation by classifying each image pixel as vessel or no vessel depending on the pixel feature vector.

Unsupervised methods17 apply the Support Vector Machines (SVM) model with a basic line detector to the green channel of the retinal image. It is created to evaluate the average grey pixel-level along the lines of fixed length passing through the target pixel at different orientations. Maninis et al.18 proposed a CNN model called Deep Retinal Image Understanding ( DRIU ) algorithm that specializes in a base network for segmenting blood vessels and optic discs detection as an image-to-image regression task.

Several blood vessel segmentation methods have achieved satisfying results. Moreover, the segmentation approaches applied to retinal images with enhancement methods result in higher accuracy, applying a threshold method to obtain the edge binary map of DR19. A multilayered threshold method was proposed to segment the retinal dataset's blood vessels to detect neovascularization. The new blood vessels improved by two-dimensional wavelets. Abnormal blood vessels are detected using a sliding window procedure. Also, segmentation of blood vessels from the retina images may improve the detection process of any small spots of lesions, leading to vision disorders